Egypt is set to host talks in the latest
Push by us and Arab diplomats to broker
a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas and
gain the release of Israeli hostages
held by the militant group in Gaza
Israeli media are reporting that a
government delegation will attend the
summit despite the security situation in
Northern Israel Hamas says its
representatives in Cairo will meet with
Egyptian delegates but not take part in
direct talks which have been stalled for
months
so let's get more on this from Naf
altani he is the former Qatar defense
intelligence director and a lecturer in
the fields of international relations
and defense in Doha very good to have
you with us naav the negotiations come
amid what has been described as one of
the biggest attacks by Hezbollah on
Israel since October 7th terror attack
by Hamas so what impact is the situation
having on these talks now
well thank you for having me um
obviously every uh kinetic
operation uh will have the threat of
impacting negotiations uh negatively
however as it seems uh as of tonight uh
that uh negotiations and mediation
continue and they are not affected by
the operations that happened uh earli of
this morning local time and hopefully
this will continue it is a good thing
that negoti ations are going on because
the window is closing for a positive
outcome so what exactly do the nego
negotiations stand at this
point well the mediators have put
clearly three main points that they want
to focus the attention of the
negotiating parties the three main
points is a cessation of violence and
end of operation or a a long-term
ceasefire as as some would would uh you
know determin we see how that goes but a
cessation of violence second return of
hostages obviously through a regimented
uh program agreed between the two
parties and third uh the humanitarian
Aid which Gaza is is really in need of
right now and the situation is going
forward unfortunately in in a in a
negative sense when it comes to
humanitarian Aid unfortunately the
negotiating parties have also added
different elements other than the three
main focused elements uh the Israelis
for instance uh as just one example
brought in the Philadelphia cor Corridor
as another element of securing that and
having the Israeli forces there the
Egyptians obviously are against that for
many reasons least of which is that
would need to uh
remend uh the um uh the peace uh Accord
between Egypt and Israel that was done
back in the 70s and that's just taking
everything back to a different direction
and a much more complicated direction is
this a a sticking point the one you just
mentioned uh is this one that could uh
um destroy the negotiations basically
ruin them because you said the window is
very very short now very
close the window is closing very fast uh
I don't personally think that that is a
sticking point but it does depend on
negotiating parties obviously opening up
negotiations for other elements that
were not in the original uh Biden plan
that was proposed by the Biden
Administration May and then fortified by
the un's security council's uh decision
I think that deviation or any deviation
would just make things much more
complicated the mediator's role now is
to focus and refocus the attention of
negotiating parties no one will get
everything they want today or when the
negotiations hopefully succeed that's
something that both parties must
understand but this should be also
understood as a stepping stone towards
further um you know discussions and
negotiations but getting something good
is much better than getting everything
perfect and I think the mediators are
focusing on that and that is the biggest
challenge and has been the biggest
challenge especially in the past week
yeah you've been mentioning the two
sides uh negotiating
Hamas however will not directly
participate in the talks it will instead
be briefed on the statos uh your view on
that
please well two things on that first of
all this is not new this is what's been
going on in the past it will be it will
continue to go on I think uh moving
forward uh it's change a bit uh
obviously that shouldn't come as a
surprise um the assassination of is Han
the leader of the political Wing who
headed the negotiating team on his end
obviously he did not participate but he
over saw the negotiation as the head of
the political uh Wing uh removing him
from the equation doesn't make
negotiations easy when you assassinate
the the side that you're trying to
negotiate with however uh Hamas has
committed at least until this point to
be back briefed and to cooperate and
they've agreed as they said principle to
the Biden's plan now the uh technical
teams uh from the mediators working with
the negotiation negotiating parties have
a lot on their shoulders to bridge the
gaps through what is now being famously
known as the bridging proposals to make
sure that you can come as close as
possible to the initial Biden
administrations plan and move
forward na Alani the former Qatar
defense intelligence director joining us
in Doha thank you so very much for
sharing your insights with
us thank you for having me